first I am NOT vegan to be vegan or to
be part of a community within five
seconds a natural vegan here
mentions the other topic I may be
infamous for for speaking about in an
overly blunt down-to-earth way community
so in the past I've had several videos
here talking about what does it mean to
say vegans our community have we ever
been a community will we ever get our
act together to be a community unnatural
vegan here makes the interesting
statement that she's not in it for a
community that's not her objective it's
not her concern well I differ from her
there and this is not a criticism of her
it is a it is a personal difference that
I think is worth reflecting on I am more
ambitious than that I am more rapacious
than that yeah I want a real community
look at Mothers Against Drunk Driving
Mothers Against Drunk Driving have an
office at least one office in every US
state there's a 50 states in United
States they have more than 50 offices
that are staffed and open all the time
they've got that we don't you tell me in
2016 what's a more important message
Mothers Against Drunk Driving or
veganism its veganism even if in the
past even if in the 1980s you know maybe
there was an argument mothers gonna
stroke driving were a really important
lobby today veganism is a message that
absolutely needs to have 50 offices in
the United States you know I I really
lived through the period of time when
when gay groups went from being marginal
to being ascendant to be very
influential when I was living in Toronto
there were a number of different gay
offices staffed offices for gay rights
you know I remember there was one that
was just specialized in lesbians and you
know different multiple gay offices with
multiple political perspectives and if
there was some controversy the
newspapers would go and interview those
foundations now they were nonprofit
political organizations they want to say
so you know let
say the police commissioner made a
homophobic remark you know the
newspapers would go an interview oh
let's go to that gay Foundation and get
gay legal rights advocacy group and get
their opinion on this something like
that that's a real community that's
that's a facet of that's a reflection of
in Toronto definitely at that time there
was a real gay community they had a
neighborhood they had buildings they had
offices they had lawyers they had night
clubs
they had festivals I mean the gay
community in Toronto not every city has
that there were multiple well organized
vocal gay communities and the newspapers
could go to them okay it would be
different if we were at the level of
Mothers Against Drunk Driving it would
be different with their level of Jews in
British Columbia
I mean Jewish people are a tiny minority
in this part of Canada they have bricks
and mortar institutions they have real
organizations they have they have
fellowships and you know the
scholarships and all kinds of benefits
are people from cradle to grave
and ultimately you can go there and
attend a picnic and talk to other human
beings face to face and whatever from
fundraising to charity work everything
can make a big difference I'm I want it
all I want a real community and I see no
reason to pretend that I don't want that
or that I wouldn't value that I see no
reason to pretend that veganism is
completely satisfactory to me if it's
just a diet or just something I do in
private and that can't have any
political ramifications by blood I'm
Jewish by belief I'm a nihilistic
atheist nevertheless for my family and
for my own life it would benefit me more
to pretend to be a religious Jew for me
to start participating you know in the
temple because Judaism here in Canada
can provide me with a real community
everything from the picnics to the
retirement homes picnics to private
schools to retirement homes okay from
the cradle to the grave the lifecycle
benefits of having a community are
provided by Judaism are provided by
Mormonism are provided by all kinds of
crazy ideologies
that rest on your believing in a God
that doesn't exist resting on your
saying prayers that will never be heard
by anyone unless you say your prayers on
YouTube then your YouTube followers can
I look at groups like the Mormons and I
think I want it all I want what you
people have for the Mormons it is
nothing to organize a picnic that 200
people are gonna show up that okay for
me even that's not enough for the
Mormons it's nothing to do a fundraiser
to help some orphans to set up some
charity they go get a project going to
throw I want that I want vegans to have
that I'm worried about the whole
lifecycle from cradle to grave I have a
three year old daughter and I don't see
that much of herb she lives in Europe
I'm living in China nevertheless where
is my daughter gonna go to school where
is my daughter gonna go to gate daycare
where am I gonna go to a retirement home
or where would my grandparents go to a
retirement home from the cradle to the
grave now look I mean the the issues
with gay rights activism those also
change over time I think in the recent
past that were hard battles for the gay
community to fight and now the gay
community can really celebrate that so
many of those battles have been won you
know in Canada I'm sure I mean Saudi
Arabia is another story there are tons
of countries where the fights for basic
gay rights are still you know at an
early stage
don't get me wrong but here in Canada we
were one of the first countries to have
gay marriage there's a whole you know
legal battle surrounding that equal
rights for gays and so on those battles
fundamentally have already been won okay
the battles for veganism are just
beginning where's that office where's
that neighborhood where's that nightclub
where's the retirement home radicular
Center I want it all I am fundamentally
much more ambitious than a natural vegan
I'm not satisfied with what you guys
call community I'm not satisfied with a
bunch of self-indulgent middle-aged
people sitting around on Facebook giving
each other the thumbs up or
I'm not satisfied with a bunch of
teenagers on Instagram photographing
their asses in a bikini and saying
they're changing the world none of that
does it for me okay I want more can I
have it today
no can I have it next year no am I gonna
see it before I die
maybe mothers against drunk driving in
just a few years they took off what
percentage of people in America really
give a damn about mothers against Roe
it's a minority really it's a small
minority of people who support a
foundation like that okay tremendously
successful what percentage of people
support like really donate money to to
Jewish temples in Canada I don't know I
mean small small minority in the past I
talked about Sikhism within Canada these
are small minority religious movements
and again I mean with with homosexuals
homosexuality isn't a diet they don't
need to have separate restaurants but
they do like in Toronto it's there's a
district there or there is such a thing
as a gay restaurant even though there's
no such thing as gay food offense we
have a reason to organize bricks and
mortar to have a restaurant in a
physical place yeah I want it all from
cradle to the grave from you know the
bricks and mortar temple to the lawyers
to the political organization to having
that foundation that's respected enough
that when there's a controversy in
government the newspapers know who to
call maybe there are several foundations
than the call where there's a voice
advocating for veganism in parliament in
the newspapers on the street yeah I want
it and I'm willing to recognize I don't
have it that's real community and we're
gonna have to work real hard to get
for me as a vegan it's easy to be
self-righteous easy to say shut it all
down snatch all the dangers set all the
animals free that's put the whole reason
why my youtube channel exists is that
I'm not really interested in these
answers to help get a question I'm the
dressed in general the murky complicated
you know moral gray areas
[Music]
evolution